# Database Structure for *creatures.js*

If you are interested in adding your creatures to the database, here is how you can write them in.

__Warning__: The following values may change in future updates. I like to have everything in order, usually alphabetical based on the property's name, the numerical values should mirror that order, so whenever I add/move/remove some values (particularly subtypes and groups) I shift all the numbers appropriately. If you would like to add new values, remember to edit *random_encounters.html* too to add a checkbox in the appropriate place. Just copy and paste an existing checkbox and edit its value and ID (you should edit that number 3 times in total), as well as the property name.

The database is organized as a CSV (comma-separated values) file, with the first and last line to transform everything into a javascript variable. There are 22 values, separated by a semicolon (;). The semicolon can't be used for anything else. If the number of fields is different from 22, the entry is discarded by the software.

If not indicated differently, every field is mandatory. An empty field looks like this: ;; (between the two semicolons).

Empty lines, or lines containing only spaces and tabulations, and lines beginning with # are ignored. You can separate your content with as many empty lines as you wish and add comments with # to better identify everything. Spaces around values are ignored, so you don't need to, say, add a space after every semicolon. It's not much, but it helps keep the database lighter.

Don't edit in any way the first and last lines of the database. Insert everything after the first line and before the last. If you don't, the software will generate an error and stop working.

You can edit *creatures.js* with any text editor. I would advise against programs that manage CSV files such as Microsoft Excel because this is not a perfect CSV file. If you do anyway, remember that the program will add 22 semicolons to each empty line and comment. You'll have to remove them with a text editor anyway.

## Fields

1. __Name__: Any sequence of letters, numbers, symbols and spaces, excluded ; and the following reserved characters:
    * *|* is used for non-standard plural forms. (__Note__: constructing plural for solitary or unique creatures and mixed groups is not necessary)
        * Standard plural forms, handled automatically, are:
            1. Words ending in *s*, *x* and *ch* add *-es*. (e.g. *sphinx* becomes *sphinxes*)
            1. Words ending in *y* replace it with *-ies*. (e.g. *harpy* becomes *harpies*)
            1. Words ending with *man* replace it with *-men*. (e.g. *gillman* becomes *gillmen*)
            1. Everything else adds *-s*. (e.g. *ghost* becomes *ghosts*)
        * If the word has a non-standard ending, write *|-* followed by the ending (e.g. *monkey|-s*).
        * If the plural form is equal to the singual, just write *|-* (e.g. *drow|-*).
        * If the plural is not so simple to construct, write the whole plural form after *|* (e.g. *djinni|djinn*).
        * To summarize, substitutions and elimination of parts of text are not possible, the only operations permitted are concatenation and complete rewriting of the text.
    * */* is used for alternative names. These names are shown in parentheses outside of the link (if enabled) and are not considered for plural. They are however inserted in the links. (e.g. *bearded devil/barbazu*)
    * *~* is used for alternative link names. While most of the pages are named following a standard, some are not, or maybe some creatures are just special cases of a generic monster. (e.g. *air mephit~mephit*)
        * The first letter after each space, open parenthesis and dash in a creature's name is automatically capitalized for the link generation, but that's not always how the page is named on AoN. If the link requires some special capitalization, use _~*_ instead. (e.g. _colour out of space~*Colour Out of Space_)
        * If the creature's sheet is not available on AoN, but can be found elsewhere, you can write the whole sheet's URL after *~*.
        * If the creature's sheet is not available anywhere on the web, you can force the creature to have no link by adding *~* followed by nothing else.
    * These special characters can be used in any combination, but have to be used in the order given above. (e.g. _lurker in light|lurkers in light~*Lurker in Light_)
    * Sometimes the apostrophe in a name has to be replaced with *%u2019* in the link. There's no rule for that, just check if it's a straight vertical apostrophe (no change needed) or if it's rounded. (e.g. _will-o'-wisp~*Will-o%u2019-Wisp_)
    * Names are usually all lower-case. The only exception are unique creatures, that should be capitalized appropriately, since the name is not the species' name but their proper noun. (e.g. *Ragathiel*)
    * If you want the link to only include a part of the name, or you want multiple links in a single name (useful for mixed groups) enclose every part in square brackets. Inside them, all the rules listed above apply. (e.g. *a gang of 1 [dark stalker] and 1d4+1 [dark creepers~dark creeper]*)
        * If one of the creatures in the group has the mythic subtype, every link will point to the myhitc monster sheets. If this is not appropriate, add a *+* after the appropriate opened square bracket or *~*. (e.g. *a nest of 1 [tyrant jelly] plus 1d12+7 [giant wasps~+giant wasp]*)
        * It works the opposite way too, you can link to a mythic creature from a non-mythic entry using the *+* sign.
        * The *+* sign can be used together with the _*_, but the _*_ sign has to be first: _*+_.
    * If you need some special HTML character, you can write it without the semicolon. (__Warning__: As of now only *&times;* is implemented.)
1. __Challenge rating__:
    * If CR is a whole number (1, 2, ...) just write it in this field.
    * If CR is fractional, use the following conversion: 1/2 = 0, 1/3 = -1, 1/4 = -2, 1/6 = -3, 1/8 = -4.
    * For mixed groups you need two values, separated by a comma. The first value is the CR of the creature with the highest CR in the group. The second is the (average) CR increase from this value. To know the total CR of a group (and thus the CR increase), you need to sum all the experience from the single creatures (look [here](https://www.aonprd.com/Rules.aspx?Name=Designing%20Encounters&Category=Building%20an%20Adventure) for the values). Where the number of creatures is defined by a dice roll, just take the mean value of the dice roll. For a single die with *K* faces its mean value is *(K+1)/2* (if the number is not whole, use it as it is, it doesn't have to be whole) or, if you prefer a more general formula, for a *N*d*K*+*B* roll, the mean value is *N (K+1)/2 + B*. Then look on the same experience table linked above and find the two numbers between which you can put your value. If your value is closer to the smaller number, use that row as the CR, otherwise use the bigger number's row. __Example__: Consider a group of *1d4+1 gnolls and 1d2 dire hyenas*. Gnolls are CR 1, dire hyenas CR 3, so the first value in the CR field is 3. Then the total experience is 3.5 times the gnoll's experience (400 XP) plus 1.5 times the dire hyena's experience (800 XP). The total average experience from this encounter is 2600 XP. This value is between CR 6 (2400 XP) and 7 (3200 XP), and closer to CR 6, so this encounter has an average CR of 6. The CR increase, i.e. the second value to insert in the CR field, is then 6-3=3. This encounter will thus have a CR value of *3,3*.
1. __Mythic rank__: A number between 0 (non-mythic monster) and 10. If omitted, this value is considered 0. For mixed groups with more than one mythic creature, just insert the highest MR value of the group.
1. __Alignment__: One or more numbers separated by commas to indicate all the possible alignments of a creature or group of creatures. A value of 0 indicates that any alignment is possible for this creature. <table><tr><td>LG: 1</td><td>NG: 2</td><td>CG: 3</td></tr><tr><td>LN: 4</td><td>N: 5</td><td>CN: 6</td></tr><tr><td>LE: 7</td><td>NE: 8</td><td>CE: 9</td></tr></table>
1. __Size__: One or more numbers separated by commas to indicate all the possible sizes of a creature (for creatures that can usually change size) or group of creatures. <table><tr><td>Fine: 0</td><td>Diminutive: 1</td><td>Tiny: 2</td></tr><tr><td>Small: 3</td><td>Medium: 4</td><td>Large: 5</td></tr><tr><td>Huge: 6</td><td>Gargantuan: 7</td><td>Colossal: 8</td></tr></table>
1. __Type__: One or more numbers separated by commas to indicate the type of a creature or types of a mixed group. <table><tr><td>Aberration: 1</td><td>Animal: 2</td><td>Construct: 3</td><td>Dragon: 4</td><td>Fey: 5</td></tr><tr><td>Humanoid: 6</td><td>Magical Beast: 7</td><td>Monstrous Humanoid: 8</td><td>Ooze: 9</td><td>Outsider: 10</td></tr><tr><td>Plant: 11</td><td>Undead: 12</td><td>Vermin: 13</td><td></td><td></td></tr></table>
1. __Subtype__: One or more numbers separated by commas to indicate the subtypes of a creature or mixed group. If omitted, the value is assumed to be 0 (None/Others). <table><thead><tr><td colspan="5">Elemental Subtypes</td></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>Aether: 1</td><td>Air: 2</td><td>Aquatic: 3</td><td>Cold: 4</td><td>Earth: 5</td></tr><tr><td>Elemental: 6</td><td>Fire: 7</td><td>Water: 8</td><td></td><td></td></tr></tbody><thead><tr><td colspan="5">Alignment Subtypes</td></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>Chaotic: 9</td><td>Evil: 10</td><td>Good: 11</td><td>Lawful: 12</td><td></td></tr></tbody><thead><tr><td colspan="5">Outsider Subtypes</td></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>Extraplanar: 13</td><td>Native: 14</td><td>Aeon: 15</td><td>Agathion: 16</td><td>Angel: 17</td></tr><tr><td>Archon: 18</td><td>Asura: 19</td><td>Azata: 20</td><td>Daemon: 21</td><td>Demodand: 22</td></tr><tr><td>Demon: 23</td><td>Devil: 24</td><td>Div: 25</td><td>Inevitable: 26</td><td>Kami: 27</td></tr><tr><td>Kyton: 28</td><td>Manasaputra: 29</td><td>Oni: 30</td><td>Protean: 31</td><td>Psychopomp: 32</td></tr><tr><td>Qlippoth: 33</td><td>Rakshasa: 34</td><td>Sahkil: 35</td><td></td><td></td></tr></tbody><thead><tr><td colspan="5">Other Subtypes</td></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>Automaton: 36</td><td>Behemoth: 37</td><td>Blight: 38</td><td>Clockwork: 39</td><td>Colossus: 40</td></tr><tr><td>Dark Folk: 41</td><td>Giant: 42</td><td>Goblinoid: 43</td><td>Great Old One: 44</td><td>Herald: 45</td></tr><tr><td>Hive: 46</td><td>Incorporeal: 47</td><td>Kaiju: 48</td><td>Mythic: 49</td><td>Mortic: 50</td></tr><tr><td>Nightshade: 51</td><td>Reptilian: 52</td><td>Robot: 53</td><td>Shapechanger: 54</td><td>Spawn of Rovagug: 55</td></tr><tr><td>Swarm: 56</td><td>Troop: 57</td><td>Wild Hunt: 58</td><td></td><td></td></tr></tbody></table>
1. __Creature Group__: One or more numbers separated by commas to indicate the groups of a creature or mixed group. For mixed groups don't include the Companion, Familiar and Improved Familiar groups. If omitted, the value is assumed to be 0 (None/Others). <table><thead><tr><td colspan="4">Semidivine Outsiders</td></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>Archdaemon: 1</td><td>Archdevil: 2</td><td>Asura Rana: 3</td><td>Daemon Harbiger: 4</td></tr><tr><td>Demon Lord: 5</td><td>Div Lord: 6</td><td>Elemental Lord: 7</td><td>Empyreal Lord: 8</td></tr><tr><td>Kami Lord: 9</td><td>Kyton Demagogue: 10</td><td>Manasaputra Kumara: 11</td><td>Oni Daimyo: 12</td></tr><tr><td>Primal Inevitable: 13</td><td>Protean Lord: 14</td><td>Psychopomp Usher: 15</td><td>Qlippoth Lord: 16</td></tr><tr><td>Rakshasa Immortal: 17</td><td>Sahkil Tormentor: 18</td><td>Titan: 19</td><td></td></tr></tbody><thead><tr><td colspan="4">True Dragons</td></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>Chromatic Dragon: 20</td><td>Esoteric Dragon: 21</td><td>Imperial Dragon: 22</td><td>Metallic Dragon: 23</td></tr><tr><td>Outer Dragon: 24</td><td>Planar Dragon: 25</td><td>Primal Dragon: 26</td><td></td></tr></tbody><thead><tr><td colspan="4">Other Groups</td></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>Axiomite: 27</td><td>Companion: 28</td><td>Couatl: 29</td><td>Dinosaur: 30</td></tr><tr><td>Drake: 31</td><td>Entothrope: 32</td><td>Familiar: 33</td><td>Familiar, Improved: 34</td></tr><tr><td>Fleshwarp: 35</td><td>Formian: 36</td><td>Gigas: 37</td><td>Golem: 38</td></tr><tr><td>Gremlin: 39</td><td>Hag: 40</td><td>Herd Animal: 41</td><td>Leshy: 42</td></tr><tr><td>Linnorm: 43</td><td>Lycanthrope: 44</td><td>Mephit: 45</td><td>Megafauna: 46</td></tr><tr><td>Naga: 47</td><td>No Racial HD: 48</td><td>Sphinx: 49</td><td>Thriae: 50</td></tr><tr><td>Troll: 51</td><td>Tsukumogami: 52</td><td>Vampire: 53</td><td>Veela: 54</td></tr><tr><td>Wysp: 55</td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr></tbody></table>
1. __Hit Dice__: The number of HD of a creature. For mixed groups indicate all the different HD values, separated by commas.
1. __Movement Type__: One or more numbers, separated by commas. <table><tr><td>Land: 1</td><td>Burrow: 2</td><td>Climb: 3</td></tr><tr><td>Fly: 4</td><td>Swim: 5</td><td>Others: 6</td></tr></table>
1. __Strength Score__: One or more numbers separated by commas.
1. __Dexterity Score__: One or more numbers separated by commas.
1. __Constitution Score__: One or more numbers separated by commas.
1. __Intelligence Score__: One or more numbers separated by commas.
1. __Wisdom Score__: One or more numbers separated by commas.
1. __Charisma Score__: One or more numbers separated by commas.
1. __Environment__: One or more numbers separated by commas. For mixed groups, choose the environments based on the dominant creature. <table><tr><td>Any Land: 0</td><td>Any Water: 1</td><td>Coastlines: 2</td><td>Deserts: 3</td><td>Forests: 4</td></tr><tr><td>Glaciers: 5</td><td>Hills: 6</td><td>Mountains: 7</td><td>Oceans: 8</td><td>Plains: 9</td></tr><tr><td>Rivers/Lakes: 10</td><td>Ruins: 11</td><td>Skies: 12</td><td>Swamps/Marshes: 13</td><td>Underground: 14</td></tr><tr><td>Urban: 15</td><td>Void: 16</td><td>Volcanoes: 17</td><td></td><td></td></tr></table>
1. __Climate__: One or more numbers separated by commas. For mixed groups, choose the climates based on the dominant creature. If omitted, the value is assumed to be 0 (Any). <table><tr><td>Cold: 1</td><td>Temperate: 2</td><td>Warm: 3</td></tr></table>
1. __Plane__: One or more numbers separated by commas. For mixed groups, choose the planes based on the dominant creature. If omitted, the value is assumed to be 0 (Any). <table><tr><td>Material Plane: 1</td><td>Plane of Shadow: 2</td><td>Astral Plane: 3</td><td>Ethereal Plane: 4</td></tr><tr><td>First World: 5</td><td>Dimension of Dreams: 6</td><td>Dimension of Time: 7</td><td>Plane of Air: 8</td></tr><tr><td>Plane of Earth: 9</td><td>Plane of Fire: 10</td><td>Plane of Water: 11</td><td>Negative Energy Plane: 12</td></tr><tr><td>Positive Energy Plane: 13</td><td>Graveyard/Purgatory (N): 14</td><td>Heaven (LG): 15</td><td>Nirvana (NG): 16</td></tr><tr><td>Elysium (CG): 17</td><td>Limbo/Maelstrom (CN): 18</td><td>Abyss (CE): 19</td><td>Abaddon (NE): 20</td></tr><tr><td>Hell (LE): 21</td><td>Utopia/Axis (LN): 22</td><td>Others: 23</td><td></td></tr></table>
1. __Numerical Intervals__: One or more intervals, separated by commas (mixed groups and unique creatures require only one interval, see below for details).
    * If a single number is used, it means that the creature can appear only in that amount. *0* indicates a creature that appears only in mixed groups. This creature will still appear in the simple list.
    * The interval is composed of two numbers separated by a *-* (e.g. *1-3*). The software will automatically fit all possible dice in this interval by itself.
    * Mixed groups are indicated with a _*_ __before__ the single number or interval.
    * If the single number or interval is followed by a *u*, it means that the creature is unique, or that the group contains a unique creature. (Can be combined with _*_.)
    * If the single number or interval is followed by *|*, the text following indicates the name of a group composed of that amount of creatures. Can't be combined with *u*, nor with _*_.
1. __Variant Information__: If the creature is a variant of another creature, here is indicated the creature or creatures needed to construct this variant. The rules for the __Name__ apply here too.
1. __Source__: One or more numbers to indicate where the creature or creatures come from. <table><tr><td>Bestiary 1 (B1): 1</td><td>Bestiary 2 (B2): 2</td><td>Bestiary 3 (B3): 3</td></tr><tr><td>Bestiary 4 (B4): 4</td><td>Bestiary 5 (B5): 5</td><td>Bestiary 6 (B6): 6</td></tr><tr><td>Ultimate Magic (UM): 7</td><td>Mythic Adventures (MA): 8</td><td>Monster Codex (MC): 9</td></tr><tr><td>Horror Adventures (HA): 10</td><td>Book of the Damned (BD): 11</td><td>Ultimate Wilderness (UW): 12</td></tr><tr><td>Planar Adventures (PA): 13</td><td>Campaign Settings (CS): 14</td><td>Player Companions (PC): 15</td></tr><tr><td>Adventure Paths (AP): 16</td><td>Adventure Modules (AM): 17</td><td></td></tr></table>
